---
name: IS 445 Homework 6 Jekyll  
tools: [Python, HTML, vega-lite, Altair]
image: assets/pngs/geographic.png
description: This assignment is part of the IS 445 course at UIUC!
custom_js:
  - vega.min
  - vega-lite.min
  - vega-embed.min
  - justcharts
---


# IS 445 Homework 6 Jekyll Webpage

---

## Chart 1: Interactive Geographical Scatter Plot

```
<vegachart schema-url="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/json/geographic_scatter.json" style="width: 100%"></vegachart>
```

<vegachart schema-url="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/json/geographic_scatter.json" style="width: 100%"></vegachart><br />


### Chart 1 Write up:

##### Description

This plot visualizes the geographical distribution of buildings across various counties. Each dot represents a building's square footage, with the dot size reflecting the square footage and the color indicating the specific agency responsible for the building. The counties are displayed along the x-axis, and the y-axis shows square footage. For the design choices of encoding, size encoding represents the building's square footage, with larger dots indicating larger buildings. The color encoding and color maps represent different agencies. By assigning a unique color to each agency, the plot improves readability, making it easier to recognize which agencies are most active in particular counties. This plot builds on the same dataset from Homework #5 but presents different visualizations and interactivity add-ons. 

##### Data Transformations & Interactivity

The dataset is first filtered to remove any entries with missing data in the "Square Footage," "Year Constructed," or "Bldg Status" columns. In addition, the interactive dropdown menu filters the data based on building status, "In Use," "Abandon," and "In progress," allowing users to focus on specific subsets of buildings based on their operational status.

---

## Chart 2: Construction Trends by County and Agency

```
<vegachart schema-url="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/json/temporal_bar.json" style="width: 100%"></vegachart>
```

<vegachart schema-url="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/json/temporal_bar.json" style="width: 100%"></vegachart><br />


### Chart 2 Write up:

##### Description

This plot shows the number of buildings constructed in each county, segmented by agency. The x-axis represents counties, while the y-axis indicates the number of buildings. For the design choices of encoding, the stacked bar chart is chosen to visualize the count of buildings by county and agency. The stacking of bars allows a straightforward comparison of building counts across counties and within each county by agency. For color maps, this chart also uses a categorical color scheme for each agency, which helps distinguish its building counts in each county. This plot is completely different from the Homework #5 previously produced. The dataset is the same, but with different information to present; instead, this plot has more connection with chart 1.  

##### Data Transformations & Interactivity

The data is aggregated by counting the number of buildings associated with each agency within each county. With the non-interactive characteristic, this plot serves as a static reference view. 

---
<!-- these are written in a combo of html and liquid --> 

<div class="left">
{% include elements/button.html link="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/UIUC-iSchool-DataViz/is445_data/main/building_inventory.csv" text="The Data" %}
</div>

<div class="right">
{% include elements/button.html link="https://github.com/seamuschang31/seamuschang31.github.io/blob/main/python_notebooks/Workbook.ipynb" text="The Analysis" %}
</div>

